---
title: OCS and You (Reusmes, Career Fairs)
permalink: /docs/ocs/
---
### Office of Career Strategy

The Office of Career Strategy offers a variety of services to help
students prepare for industry jobs\--including but not limited to
setting up Yale-coordinated internships, resume review, mock interviews,
and career advice. Drop in at OCS on a day while classes are in session
or [visit their
page](http://ocs.yale.edu/connect/connect-office-career-strategy) for
more information.

OCS is best for general questions about the job/internship search
process, but for tech internships, the recruiting timeline and coding
interviews are very different from the requirements for most
internships. For more information about tech career advice, feel free to
reach out to DSAC or do your own research.

### Career fairs

There are a variety of career fairs relevant to CS majors held at Yale
throughout the year. In the past, a diverse set of companies involved in
everything from online payments to financial security have had booths at
these fairs; repeat attendees include Google, Facebook, Microsoft,
MongoDB, Palantir, and lots more. News about career fairs usually spread
via email, so students should definitely subscribe to the mailing lists
described above.

There are career fairs both for standard software engineering
internships as well as more specific, niche pursuits. In the past, there
have been CS career fairs for social good, healthcare, public service,
engineering, and more. There have also been virtual career fairs (in
which students can \"attend\" online) held by public and private sector
entities alike.

### SEAS resume book

The School of Engineering and Applied Sciences compiles
[an](http://www.yaleseas.com/resumebook/) [online book of
resumes](http://www.yaleseas.com/resumebook/) from across Yale
University\--there are resumes from undergraduate and graduate students
alike, and students can use it to get ideas for how to format their own
resumes as well as get in touch with other students who have had work
experience with particular companies.