---
title: General Resources
permalink: /docs/resources/
---
**RESOURCES**

Check out the [[Yale DSAC
Wiki]{.ul}](https://yaledsac.wikia.com/wiki/Yale_DSAC_Wiki) for your
source on everything Yale CS-related!

New to Yale CS? The first thing you should do is join the [cs-majors
mailing list](http://mailman.cs.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/cs-majors)!
Anyone can join the list, even if they haven't declared the major. This
is the best place to find opportunities, speaker events, applications,
and of course, DSAC info! If you ever need to advertise an event, you
can also feel free to directly email the list as well
(cs-majors\[at\]cs.yale.edu).

The [cs-majors-jobs mailing
list](http://mailman.cs.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/cs-majors-jobs) is
another great resource to get internships, interviews, and other job
opportunities. Again, anyone can join the list!

**ACADEMICS AND ZOO GUIDES**

Have questions about major requirements, advising, or classes? The
[[Director of Undergraduate Studies Page]{.ul}](http://dus.cs.yale.edu/)
contains Yale's official information about the CS department and
curriculum.

Below are some academic guides compiled by DSAC and written by various
members of the Yale CS community. Email DSAC if you have another
academic guide that you'd like to contribute to our webpage!

-   [[Cheat
    > sheet]{.ul}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MLiljDRKx8JcFyHccvTlpng0H3wb4aATxeJq9lDSXoE/edit)
    > on Unix and the Zoo (by former 223 ULAs)

-   [[Official CPSC 201 Quick Start
    > Guide]{.ul}](https://zoo.cs.yale.edu/classes/cs201/spring_2022/materials/quick-start.html)
    > (Spring 2022)

-   [[Unofficial CS
    > roadmap]{.ul}](https://cdn.cs50.net/guide/yale-2.pdf) (by CS50
    > staff)

-   [[Yale Survival Guide for
    > STEM]{.ul}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MSJMTt0HiKneXpz-llwTm1rnJ4hNI6dXfyp2UqzMVqE/edit)
    > (by the Class of 2019)

A cheat sheet written by former 223 ULAs about [[using SFTP with Sublime
Text]{.ul}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/173NNZNYXMC0bJuE2wzYOwsRK-OK3hcromkDOgpowt-I/edit)

# Resources for CS Students

> [EDIT](https://yaledsac.fandom.com/wiki/Resources_for_CS_Students?veaction=edit)

There is no doubt that the long slough to that fancy piece of paper at
the end of your four years can be difficult, but the journey can be made
much easier by taking advantage of some of institutional resources that
Yale offers. There are a variety of university-supported and
student-organized resources to help CS students with homework,
networking, hacking, and more.

## Academics

### Office hours

In CS classes, much of the learning happens outside of official lecture
time --- during office hours! The vast majority of CS classes have
office hours led by professors, TFs (grad students), or ULAs (undergrad
students who've taken the class before). At most office hours, you'll
either review important concepts before exams or get one-on-one help on
your problem sets! It can be a great opportunity to meet fellow
classmates and get help debugging your code, so it's highly recommended
that you attend!

You can find your class's office hours schedule either on the official
class webpage, Canvas page, and/or
[[https://csofficehours.org/]{.ul}](https://csofficehours.org/). Go as
early as possible --- as it gets closer to a problem set deadline or
exam date, office hours get more and more packed, and it can be harder
to get help. Office hours can be an incredible way to rehash lecture
concepts, solve problem sets, get to know upperclassmen, and meet new
people all in the span of an hour or two!

### Peer tutors

If students think they need extra help outside of office hours, they can
apply for a peer tutor. Refer to the Center for Teaching and Learning\'s
[page](https://ctl.yale.edu/tutoring/quantitative-reasoning-science/small-group-and-1-1-tutoring)
on how to set this up.

## Professional Opportunities

### SEAS resume book

The School of Engineering and Applied Sciences compiles
[an](http://www.yaleseas.com/resumebook/) [online book of
resumes](http://www.yaleseas.com/resumebook/) from across Yale
University\--there are resumes from undergraduate and graduate students
alike, and students can use it to get ideas for how to format their own
resumes as well as get in touch with other students who have had work
experience with particular companies.

### Office of Career Strategy

The Office of Career Strategy offers a variety of services to help
students prepare for industry jobs\--including but not limited to
setting up Yale-coordinated internships, resume review, mock interviews,
and career advice. Drop in at OCS on a day while classes are in session
or [visit their
page](http://ocs.yale.edu/connect/connect-office-career-strategy) for
more information.

OCS is best for general questions about the job/internship search
process, but for tech internships, the recruiting timeline and coding
interviews are very different from the requirements for most
internships. For more information about tech career advice, feel free to
reach out to DSAC or do your own research.

### Career fairs

There are a variety of career fairs relevant to CS majors held at Yale
throughout the year. In the past, a diverse set of companies involved in
everything from online payments to financial security have had booths at
these fairs; repeat attendees include Google, Facebook, Microsoft,
MongoDB, Palantir, and lots more. News about career fairs usually spread
via email, so students should definitely subscribe to the mailing lists
described above.

There are career fairs both for standard software engineering
internships as well as more specific, niche pursuits. In the past, there
have been CS career fairs for social good, healthcare, public service,
engineering, and more. There have also been virtual career fairs (in
which students can \"attend\" online) held by public and private sector
entities alike.

### Conferences

Insert info about Grace Hopper, etc.

## Side Projects

### Hackathons

Hackathons are a fantastic way to learn or improve on new technology
skills. Yale\'s biggest hackathon is [YHack](https://www.yhack.org/),
usually held in the beginning of December every year. There are
routinely more than 1000 attendees every year from schools all over the
world, and any Yale student is guaranteed admission. In 2017, YHack
featured over \$57,200 in prizes. There are also a variety of other,
smaller hackathons that clubs and organizations hold throughout the
year, which students also hear of via mailing list.

### DSAC funding

DSAC can provide funding for student projects provided the funding
request meets certain guidelines. Email dsac\@yale.edu for more
information.

### Student Clubs

Many CS clubs allow students to collaborate on side projects together
--- here is a
[[spreadsheet]{.ul}](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11bmsU-RfKi332X12eKAv_Dt1xZYf6QwjDLJhtkEgmzQ/edit?usp=sharing)
compiled by DSAC of some student CS clubs!

## Leadership and Community Service

There are many ways for students to give back to the Yale and New Haven
communities using their CS skills, including but not limited to:

-   [Dwight Hall](http://dwighthall.org/programs) (Yale)

-   [CoderDojo](https://coderdojo.com/volunteer/)

-   [Code4Good](https://yalecode4good.wordpress.com/) (Yale)

-   [SheCode](https://www.facebook.com/SheCodeatYale/) (Yale)
